---
title: Meditation
slug: meditation
published: 2020-05-08 08:55:00+01:00
---

# A thought exercise

While working at Typeform, we had a weekly mindfulness session in the basement
run by a professional coach. About 10 of us used to join and we’d sit in quiet,
listening to calming music, and Kasia, the coach, would guide us through a kind
of meditation.

She provided the high level instruction: “imagine your problem, the thing that
is frustrating or consuming you. Imagine it very clearly—then let go of it”.

The manner in which I let go of it was up to me. For me, the way that worked
best and that I enjoyed the most, was imagining the problem inside a bubble. I’m
underwater, and my problem is inside a little bubble, that I suppose I’m also
in - because my problem and I are one. Many problems are ones that we create
inside our heads after all.

As practically any human being can understand, it’s easy to let your mind
wander—especially when you’re intentionally visualising something that is
bothering you. But the trick is, when I find myself going in circles, or I just
feel I’ve thought about it enough, I stop. I imagine detaching myself from the
problem and leaving the bubble. I watch my problem slowly drift away from me,
floating up towards the surface, and out of my mind. Then the problem is very
small. It’s far away from me, and I know that once it reaches the surface of the
water, it will disappear as if it were never there.

This exercise really helps me to let go. I can drive myself crazy over-thinking,
letting a worry or concern circle around my head, resisting every mediation I
try to dispel it. This exercise allows me to put the problem into perspective -
it’s _just a thing_, and a view - a view from which I cannot look away. But
putting it inside the bubble and allowing it to float way from me, with no
effort, with as much ease as an air bubble floating up towards the atmosphere,
allows me to relax.
